ladies and gentlemen it is hot enough
i consider doing this live stream
shirtless i do not know if my youtube
channel
would be more or less censored if i
started doing shirtless live streams
i also do not know i do not know if this
would increase or increase my audience
or change the composition of my audience
with that let's change how seriously my
uh my political views are taken
i have two really meaningful emails from
supporters
um long time viewers the channel people
who support me on patreon et cetera
that i wanted to read out and respond to
here and they get at questions that i've
tried to summarize
in the incredibly long title that this
live stream has i assume i'm not going
to change that title it's
you know there are actually guidelines
youtube gives you how to have a shorter
more concise title which i'm
violating both in principle and practice
here but any case you know
there are questions about politics that
have much greater personal consequences
for us and they have
you know outcomes in terms of changing
society as a whole but we nevertheless
make those decisions
because we care about those broader
long-term social goals so i mean
to give an example if i decide that i'm
canadian that i'm part of the canadian
problem canadian you know history of
genocide and what have you and that it's
important for me to learn the kree
language
or the ojibwe language or the denial
language if i commit myself to doing
that over many years
and many hundreds of hours of hard work
for many years
it's not it's not like getting a tattoo
getting a tattoo is easy
getting a tattoo for the sake of
nationalism hanging a flag on your wall
that's easy but you know if you're
actually going to make the commitment to
learn a language like korea or ojibwe or
you know if you're in the united states
could be nabo if you make the commitment
to do that obviously that's going to
have
enormous transformative effects for you
personally what are the transformative
effects like for your side is your
society as a whole
it may be zero or next to zero but this
question i ask
many times in many different political
and ethical uh
contexts on my channel is if not you
then who you know if you aren't gonna
take it on yourself
for these political reasons to learn
kree to learn ojibwe
one of these languages who who is who is
better qualified who's
better suited to do that and we live in
a world where people do learn
klingon klingon is a fictional language
from the star trek
tv shows and movies people learn klingon
just so they can go to a
star trek convention people were
learning the languages from the game of
thrones
tv show i don't know if now that would
be diverse no do they do those people
now feel crestfallen and like they've
ruined
years of their lives like this useless
language because the last several years
of the game of thrones tv show
disappointed everyone see that there are
people who learn languages for
relatively
silly reasons there are people who learn
a language just for the sake of tourism
they like going to italy on vacation and
they start learning italian this sort of
thing
so there are examples of people who make
that commitment and put in the hard work
um without any particular political
ambition of mine
but we're talking here about both
positive political ambitions
and what i think we could frankly call
negative
political motivations such as guilt such
as feeling beholden
to learn this language you know you feel
guilty because of your part in the
genocide or you feel you don't you don't
want to be on that side of history
there is certainly a sense in which you
may be motivated to do this not out of a
positive sense of making the world a
better place
but of a negative sense of not wanting
to make the world the worst place not
wanting to be part of uh
uh you know something something terrible
so we have two questions that i'm gonna
respond to and the first comes from a
viewer in ireland
i have to say i was anticipating this i
wasn't expecting this particular viewer
to write in but i knew i'd hear back
from the irish i knew
i had quite a few uh longtime irish
viewers i knew somebody would take the
time to
either challenge me or reflect further
on what i what it said
in the video so this guy i'm going to
use his name he was a youtuber
he on youtube he used the name doorny as
far as i know his youtube channel has
either been deleted or he
or it's so obscure i couldn't find it
searching around anymore
but he's uh he's not making youtube
videos anymore in any case
anyway a message from dorney in ireland
who's watched my videos from any of you
and who have heard who i've heard from
you know have chatted every so often
over the years so he writes in and says
hey isil
i'm currently catching up on your live
streams the times i broadcast that are
not convenient for him in ireland
maybe even more inconvenient for people
in new zealand but i got to do what i
got to do
um he says your live stream on the
sovereignty of indigenous peoples and
languages
caught me big time particularly when you
mentioned ireland
so i had to drop in the statement or
rhetorical question
quote what's the point in sovereignty if
the irish people
continue to speak english question mark
rings
true it shocked me for a few seconds but
then i settled into a kind of
resignation
so just pause here um if you guys
haven't seen that earlier video which is
completely understandable
i i don't expect you have memorized my
corpus of several thousand videos
and many of these videos are more than
an hour long so let's just uh
you know recap basically you know
i identify myself as an historical
nihilist
so nihilism has many meanings my
particular school or philosophy is
historical nihilism which has a great
deal to do with
learning from history and basically you
learn what not to believe in
from the study of history you learned
that there is nothing to be believed in
from the study of history and in the
study of history of course some people
believe in god
some people believe in god's plural some
people believe in ideologies like
communism but they also believe in
abstract concepts
like sovereignty and those are
problematic in a different way like part
of the problem with believing in god is
that people
cut their penis off have you heard of
circumcision
i know people do all kinds of
unbelievably irrational things because
they believe in this
word god which is nothing more than a
word
um sovereignty is nothing more than a
people kill each other over this word
you know even if it may be extraordinary
or unusual
you know this has been a tremendously
powerful concept in shaping
you know human action but beyond that
beyond those kinds of extremes of
behavior linked to the
the word and the concept and the belief
you know um
people tend to live their lives without
questioning without reflecting on what
their assumptions are
bundled up in this world so i made a
video really challenging
the assumptions about sovereignty what
do i mean by an assumption
many people assume that the problem
our indigenous people have here is a
lack of sovereignty and that the
solution to their problems will be
sovereignty or more sovereignty right
now there are many different ways in
which i think that's untrue
and misleading and people need to stop
and reflect on sovereignty
the part of the video he's alluded to
here is where i challenged the irish
said well what is your nationalism for
what is the point of your nationalism
what are you pursuing you know
looking at sovereignty not as an end in
itself
not as an unassailable uh benefit to
everyone like as a word or concept
that's just beneficial to everyone
just because of the sound of the word or
something but questioning sovereignty
looking at it as a means to an end if
what our indigenous people here in
canada need is
access to university education
world-class excellent university
education
and by the way also access to drinking
water and sewage systems
world-class excellent drinking water and
sewage and these are not things you can
take for granted for native people
well separating them from canada
granting them sovereignty and then they
won't have access to
canadian universities or you know the
canadian taxpayers ability to provide
them with sewage treatment plants and
you know running water and so on
actually you could be locking them into
kind of dead-ended poverty in a
microstate
they would have sovereignty they
wouldn't have universities they wouldn't
have dreamed well they wouldn't have a
lot of the benefits that are now taken
for granted
under the canadian government now it was
a long video it wasn't a simplistic
dismissal of sovereignty
but in turning to a country like ireland
which is a very different position
in ireland they have world-class
universities
they have in general world-class
social safety net as people like to say
they have world-class government
services
for the poor and what have you they have
running water
i've been to ireland the highways were
still under construction was there i was
there many many years ago
but actually there were still some
science at that time of how new the
affluence of ireland was there were
some of the basic first world
assumptions about life were still being
built around that time they were being
built rapidly today ireland is
more wealthy per capita than england
something the england are not the pardon
me something the english are not
comfortable talking about by the way but
ireland has become an affluent and
successful place
okay but nevertheless sovereignty is a
means to an end
and if the if the purpose of sovereignty
if the purpose of your nationalism is
just racism
i can't sympathize with it i can't uh uh
can't
support it anyway so i'll pause show it
to everyone in the audience i am
happy i'm doing this as a live stream
rather than pre-recorded video oh gee my
camera angle is not great okay i'm
trying to improve that
um i'm happy to chat with you guys uh
so i'm obviously a very clear sense of
what doesn't want to discuss in today's
video but i i can pause if you guys want
to ask me a question you want to
contribute to discussion
if you want to hit thumbs up it'll help
more people discover the live stream
while we're while we're going
but come on if you if you guys think i'm
motivated by money
it's it's really not about the money um
total digression plant-based powered
says
vegan gains is on antidepressants and
they are working so you have a typo you
misspelled there
but um i am very surprised to hear that
richard is taking antidepressants if
that's true
obviously i haven't fact checked this
this is just a claim
from the audience as you guys know many
years ago
richard and i were friends for a couple
of years so i have to say i am shocked
to hear that he's taking antidepressants
if it's untrue it's untrue it's just one
person in the audience
told me this richard had a lot of
problems
psychological problems physical problems
intellectual problems
moral problems he's a troubled soul
but his experience with hospitals i
thought had given him a bit of a
scientific skeptical attitude towards
medical treatment of various kinds you
know he's just had
surgeries and treatments and obviously
he was someone who was very skeptical
about the use of um
steroids and performance dancing drugs
so yes that's that is shocking for me to
hear that he's now joined the
the antidepressant camp if you guys
haven't seen it
melissa made a meaningful set of
reflections that include antidepressants
i'm just going to provide the link
because it's again it's a long title
we're in the long title club now um the
the first prototype is permanent
sedation
uh permanent sedation drugs alcohol and
antidepressants it's great video
but you know i think i think some people
so just i just posted the link to that
that's melissa's video
i think some people might not realize
that that video does really deal with in
a meaningful way
uh the culture science and pseudoscience
of uh
antidepressants also so let's give you
guys the title
um okay well i'm gonna return to my main
topics
here a question but how do you feel
about vegans owning pets
so guys check the playlist section of my
channel you may not know that there's a
playlist actually
but boy have i ever have i ever covered
this topic thoroughly
uh we have hours and hours of
videotaping
what the one that melissa's in that's
one of my favorites so what that what's
that called
uh pet ownership and
yeah it is captive animals are not
companion animals that's it
so that's a really great thing but
honestly it it's not it's not the only
great videos here you go title
equals captive animals are not companion
animals this is one of
i mean at least 30 in-depth substantive
discussions of this stuff
um knock yourself out
all right we return to this uh complex
question so i i digress there to talk
about
what i have been saying lately about
sovereignty
um i guess i will just argue against my
own point briefly this is a very
important thing for youtubers to do it's
very important thing for people in
politics to do
is to talk about the extent to which
you're wrong or the extent to which the
concepts you're trading and
analysis you're training in has uh
limitations it ceases to be meaningful
ceases to be workable seems to be
applicable at some point i think the
most powerful argument
someone could offer against me on on
sovereignty and nobody's done this
the questions that respond today don't
argue against me on this
um is to talk about defensive
sovereignty and defensive nationalism
so you know there are cases where you
say well look these people are being
driven to extinction or they're being
somehow colonized they're on the
receiving end of genocide
and the way to defend them is to offer
them sovereignty or some of this
you know there are cases where it's one
very large country beating up on a
smaller country what have you
where you could frankly i mean i think
again
so this isn't my argument i'm saying
it's the most powerful argument against
me
well there are some small islands close
to australia that have
sovereignty but they rely on australia
for everything
including access to hospitals and
actually i think it's quite a difficult
argument to make to say well these small
countries are really better off having
their sovereignty
than just being a province of australia
even wikipedia level reading about those
islands but when you talk about
defensive sovereignty then you're really
making the army say well
at least these people are protected
against the predations of the terrible
australians
now another example on an even smaller
scale sri lanka
is a small country it's surrounded by
even smaller countries there are some
small islands that sovereignty are
independent countries if you see an
ocean
there and they rely on sri lanka for
hospitals they rely on sri lanka for
universities and these things and you
get into a similar sort of discussion
about
uh um the defensive justification for
sovereignty
and sorry again so you can tell this is
not i do think there's a meaningful
conversation whether i do think someone
can argue against my possession
how about hong kong house house
sovereignty working out for hong kong
as opposed to you know the giant of
china and indeed
um canada why does canada exist
you know this this is really getting to
the same question as mentioned very
briefly
why does ireland exist why should canada
be a separate country from the united
states of america
well what canadians have tried to do for
more than 100 years is to
advance an argument in terms of
defensive sovereignty
defensive nationalism which is totally
incoherent and nonsensical
i mean you you would have to believe
that the americans
are a hoard of barbarians who are going
to loot and pillage
and rape our wives or something and
carry away
the diamonds and gold of canada if we
allow them to come over a border nobody
believes this
you know so defensive sovereignty it can
become ridiculous
uh sure but really briefly you know i
remember talking about this in a very
sensitive and nuanced way in laos
so laos is a small country also known as
the lao people's democratic republic
just north of cambodia just east of
thailand just west of vietnam
why should laos be a country instead of
becoming a province of thailand
or instead of getting into an even
grander coalition with say cambodia and
myanmar
it's it's a sensitive topic but they
have to ask themselves that question all
the time
and there has been i mean until recently
the the
contention with these other national
identities it has been intense enough
that there's been a real argument for
defensive
sovereignty that if the oceans joined
one of these other countries they would
cease to be lotion
they'd lose their language that lose
their culture interestingly even members
the communist party
talked to me about their fear that
lotions would lose their distinctive
form of buddhism
i remember it was a really fascinating
conversation a guy who's a communist
party commander
communist party apparatus he was saying
to me really passionately that
he was afraid of cambodian buddhism
uh assimilating or what would be the
word um
taking over lotion buddhism lotions
losing their form of buddhism to
the relative giant of cambodian buddhism
now anyway it was interesting in in many
ways including that i just
i just don't think cambodian buddhism is
that charismatic
but in any case it was interesting to
see that that was really there there was
a defensive notion
that if lotions want to continue to
exist as lotions they have to cling to
their sovereignty and
their nationalism all right so long but
i think necessary digression before um
getting further into this email all
right so
again he just written to me dorney
saying that
my live stream talking about sovereignty
indigenous peoples in their languages
impacted him quote unquote big time
um he said it rings true for him
he felt shocked by it and i agree it is
shocking uh it's it's so outside of our
normal range of
political discourse but after a few
seconds it settled into a kind of
resignation
okay i continue to quoting quote now in
ireland we're lucky to a certain extent
that we have other forms or practices
which preserve our so-called cultural
identity
which are very much alive and well as we
speak so
now he names several sports some of
which i can't
pronounce so he mentions gaelic football
and hurling
and one another i'm not gonna look up
how to pronounce it okay
so these are team sports played on a
grass field uh et cetera
sorry hurling hurling might sound like
the hammer toss it's not
curling is similar to field hockey
in some ways uh similar to a sport we
have here in canada called lacrosse
so hurling sounds like a very different
sport than this it's a team sport guys
and a gaelic football i've honestly
never googled but i would assume the
same
all right um he says the downfall of
these
would be as detrimental to us as a
people as the extinction of the irish
language
period okay so let's just
pause on that there's a lot in this
email that i i sympathize with
okay now the shocking
challenging assertion i made is that if
irish nationalism
is only justified by racism then it has
no place in the 21st century like i just
don't think racism is a justification
for the existence
of a sovereign country a nation it's
just not good enough
racism alone right now of course it's
especially observed when you're talking
about the racism of the irish against
the english or vice versa
there was a study this was cited in a
formal academic context i don't know if
it's true
but allegedly 25
of white english people who identify as
english
when questioned will say that yes they
are partly genetically irish
they're aware they have a grandparent or
something who's irish so
obviously that sounds like it was just
based on a survey and not actually doing
dna research
but the irish and the english are in
entwined and inextricable ethnic groups
you know they don't just look like each
other and speak the same language there
is racism there is racism against the
irish and they're
vice versa they're irish people are
racist against there is i'm just saying
it's not good enough
justify the existence of a country now
you know
if you think about two countries in
africa or um
the caribbean where you don't have you
know a personal
stake then likewise it'll probably
become very obvious to you
that racism alone can't justify these
things okay
well are you really telling me that a
sport like
gaelic football or hurling
justifies yourself
i know it's less odious than racism
uh but you know would you be willing to
take that seriously
there are a lot of people who want to
leave china
i still i still like china i even kind
of love china
okay but obviously i sympathize with
people who
are sick and tired of living in a
communist dictatorship
and want to leave okay if i
said that canada starting tomorrow will
accept
any chinese person who puts in the time
and effort to study
the ojibwe language i'll say ojibwe
ojibwe by the way is also known as uh
anishinabe moen everyone
uh so that's one of our largest
indigenous languages
right now if you go to amazon.com you
can get textbooks
to help you study it you can get an
audio cd so
that's one of the few languages where
you can readily buy and start saying
say okay look if you're chinese and you
put in
100 hours of hard work and you've really
memorized the vocabulary in this book so
that's not being fluent in the language
but you can sit and write a test saying
that you're at level five or something
in ojibwe we will give you canadian
citizenship you can permanently
immigrate to canada estimate for me how
many people from china would take that
you know chinese people are willing to
work hard to learn english
with no certain promise it's just not
clear what they're gonna do with the
language where they're gonna go but some
of them are thinking there's a one
percent chance
they'll become a canadian citizen or
american citizen if you just say openly
this is the deal anyone from china who
does this work
and learns a first nations language up
to a certain measured level
maybe you have a an exam for them every
five years i don't know
you get the passport you get to live in
canada first off how many people in
brazil
would go for that if you offered the
brazilians we can keep going down the
list and by the way obviously brazil
is not hell on earth i've been very
surprised to meet
and hear from brazilians who really felt
brazil was a place they had to escape
from
but some of them do um some of them
really feel that's a life and death
struggle is to get out of brazil
and some people go on vacation there
what can i tell you
obviously they're not going on vacation
and these kind of hopeless uh fellows
okay now look you know that would be
taking language indigenous language
seriously as the criterion and i can now
extend this to ireland
what if the government of ireland passes
a resolution
they have a very interesting system for
reforming the constitution there
which i won't now describe but they have
this council and they then have a
referendum they say okay
starting tomorrow anyone in
china who learns the indigenous irish
language
most people say irish gaelic i just like
to call it irish anyone who learns
irish not english irish
they will be given a passport they will
be allowed to live in ireland
permanently
if you buy the books listen to cds do
the work now you're an average citizen
thing's going to change there are going
to be some chinese people they're going
to be some people in heilongjiang
and compared to heilongjiang the climate
in ireland is beautiful
compared to yunnan compared to dil hong
not so much there are beautiful parts of
china lifted
but um there will be people who want to
leave heilongjian
and you know what it might double the
population of ireland
let's be real how many million people in
china
would buy the cds buy the books study
for the test and they've got the
discipline
if you can learn to read and write
chinese you can learn any language i
mean it's so hard being
being literate in chinese they can sit
down and crack the books and learn
irish gaelic no problems that would be
taking
language seriously
how many million people are you willing
to accept from south africa
just because they learn to play hurling
how many million people are you going to
accept from venezuela
just because they learn to play gaelic
football right
so again so dorney there's a lot in this
email we're going to read the rest of it
there's a lot i sympathize with but i'm
challenging you to really take
your own words seriously she's going to
read that sense again
he says quote i know sport isn't to your
taste
but these were stronghold activities for
us during british rule and the great
famine when gaelic was being further
diminished against
our will they keep and continue to keep
our quote-unquote identity intact this
day
merge with the natural usage of gaelic
on the way close quote
so he says the downfall of these sports
would be as detrimental to us as a
people as the extinction of the irish
language
close quote i'm not even saying i
disagree with you
i think you disagree with you i think
you don't really believe that
you know i i don't think you believe and
look i mean as i say
a nation state or a sovereign nation
built on the basis of racism is one that
in my opinion doesn't deserve to exist
in the 21st century it is
racism is just not good enough a reason
for it to have a country
and a sovereign state and a government
and pay taxes and all these other things
and have your own university system to
have your own
authority over the water supply and
sewage
it is it cannot be justified by racism
alone
it sure as hell can't be justified by
playing hurling
it can't be justified by team sports
there's no way sports and athleticism
can justify a nation state it's the
opposite you've got it the wrong way
around
right like why do why do we have the
olympics
you know it's not do the olympics
justify nationalism or does nationalism
justify the olympics guys
i'm gonna glance again here at the um uh
at the at the comments
so i have a question uh isil do you plan
on boring from the library the book
disrobing the aboriginal industry
well if you keep following the channel
or if you support me on patreon by the
way patreon is one dollar
the amount of money i make out of this
is purely symbolic
you have a good idea of what it is i'm
reading at any one time and i'm planning
to continue
doing uh live streams that i call
nihilist booktube
so i i created that hashtag hashtag
nihilistbooktube i continue to keep
doing this
you'll have a sense of what it is i'm
reading i am just now finishing
writing my book um no more manifestos
and i assume there's going to be a kind
of final proofreading process where i'm
going to look at all the typos
and actually get it physically printed
and sent sent a copy on paper
and it'll be available as a book um but
you know
in terms of what my priorities will be
this is this is july then we're into
august and september
no there's really no chance that'll be
my my priority in terms of what i'm
reading
and you know i'm throwing myself i think
as you guys will get the sense from even
my videos from the flag in the
background
i'll be throwing myself back into
working on chinese
in a major way so
another great question that i've already
answered quote do you view
learning languages as meaningful in
itself
or do you think what you can do once you
have learned languages
is the potentially meaningful part or
both so
you know i have a separate youtube
channel that just
gathers together all of my videos about
language learning i think it's just
called isil mazzard
um so you can get to it by searching for
my name plus the channel
i will give you that link here you go
um
you know the the so okay uh my
language
so all of those videos do exist on my on
about sale my most popular youtube
channel but they're hard to find because
i have so many thousands of videos
um you know the short answer is no
and uh you know if it were true that
learning languages were meaningful in
itself we wouldn't even be having this
conversation
why would it be difficult to motivate
irish people
to learn the irish language if it were
meaningful in itself and so but stuff
that
stuff that's meaningful in itself people
don't need to be told to do
they don't need to be coerced into doing
they don't need to be given
specific objectives to justify doing it
um you know so i think that is the short
answer i think the whole conversation
we're having very much presumes and is
predicated upon the fact
that this is an enormous amount of work
that isn't in some self-evident way
uh meaningful itself okay we've got 24
people in the audience now if you can
take a moment to hit the thumbs up i
always say this but it's the truth if
you later change your mind
decide there's a bad video you can undo
the thumbs up you can also hit thumbs
down
but it will help more people uh find the
video and join the conversation if
if we have 27 people with 27 thumbs up
it means more people can join the
conversation while we're livestreaming
otherwise
but i profit from this in no way
whatsoever all right i mean i used to
post on my blog
just how little money i was making out
of youtube and it stopped being worth
doing because i was only making less and
less money anyway
but anyway obviously this is uh this is
really being discussed pro bono i get
eight
i guess i get enough money to pay my own
internet bill
every month if you want to if you want
to justify it that way
from uh from youtube all right so i'm
probably i'm just going to say someone
or i imagine i'm going to stay somewhere
apparently not
okay so moon dog comments i've never
heard of this person before francis
widowson so i'm going to google this
name
just as i'm reading this comment sounds
like an interesting challenge for a
discussion here we will get back to
ireland and we'll get back to russia
also in this video
francis widowson so this is a
professor in politics
okay at mount royal university which is
a
terrible university but she doesn't mean
she's a bad professor
okay so frances widowson
she got her bachelor's degree and
master's degree at university of
victoria
her phd from york york is a really
terrible university particularly in
political science in my opinion
okay well interesting pedigree and she's
taught in a number of universities in
canada since
if you guys think i'm jealous reading
this kind of
not only am i constitutionally incapable
of feeling jealousy but
wow i'm really glad i got to live the
life i did and not this this woman's
life okay so this woman is the is the
author of the aforementioned book
disrupting the uh the aboriginal
industry um
okay so francis with us and so this is a
quote from
moon dog quote francis witherson thinks
encouraging native selling their
language is harmful to them
because it takes time away from learning
something that could actually make them
marketable
like st
sounds like an idiot i'm sorry i don't i
don't know the
i don't know the woman or work but that
really sounds like a shockingly
stupid argument to me anyway
um um you know uh
i would like to see her perspective on
video games
[Laughter]
what's your perspective on skiing what's
your perspective on
watching hockey on television and
walking watching baseball on television
you know uh there's a lot of things that
take take take time away from you in
life
but i do not think that line of
reasoning is is viable here
um okay mario donkey is saying all right
i'm gonna return to my main promise here
in just a moment but i'm interested in
some things you guys are saying
quote learning a language in itself is
no harm
so i completely disagree i'm just
quoting him i completely disagree
i continue quote however it is
dedicating you to something that may be
less useful
than learning to play an instrument a
musical instrument for example
so rich many possible disagreements
could be spun out of this concept
uh melissa uploaded a video to my own
channel quite recently talking about
really the harm that's done by learning
musical instruments
and the misconceptions about and kind of
glorification of
musical education and i agree with her
on that this thing we've talked about
from time to time
over the years in this relationship i
don't know if i can find the video
do you know what the title of that was
music there we go music education is not
really education
title that's great it's right to the
point so we're pretty harsh critics of
music
education around here myself and my
lovely assistant who's sitting uh
sitting off camera and then on the other
hand what you say the very first
sentence you say that
learning a language is no harm that's
also something that i am
radically disruptively honest about
and uh i have many videos talking about
here is one titled it feels like brain
damage
um talking about and you know no offense
you
may not have that much experience
learning languages
and i really do and i'm really willing
to talk about the extent to which it is
harm
it is a sacrifice and you have to kind
of take that seriously and that's why i
don't i don't lightly suggest to people
that they should spend hundreds of hours
and change their lives to learn language
it's a huge huge commitment
we're going to come back to that here
talking about and talking about ireland
sorry yeah
well i think i think that's i think
that's what we're we're coming to
kind of soon enough um so i'll answer
melissa's question melissa said what do
you think about the requirement
of learning a language in high school
which is quite different from what we've
what we've been talking about
it's related but it is a different
matter about about authorities
uh political authorities forcing you to
learn a language or requiring it for you
to finish high school or have access to
university
now i was just talking about the
requirement of learning a language for
citizenship
so by the way many countries do that we
looked at the possibility of becoming
citizens of greece
that's completely natural if you want to
become a citizen of greece you got to
learn to speak
greek you know um so
you know i don't i don't think that's
really controversial talk about that um
you know with uh
with learning a language in high school
part of the problem is high school you
know
um that
pro i've probably covered how i feel
about it just you know i mean
language learning it may be incompatible
with high school you know like we may be
really talking about a stage of life
and an institutional setting and context
which is really
incredibly poorly suited to language
learning now you know it's it's not
this doesn't completely shut down the
conversation but i think that's probably
the first thing you know for us to
for us to look at um we uh canada it's
very very well researched in canada high
school education
fails to teach people french french is
much easier to learn than chinese it's
much easier to learn than korea or
ojibwe or something
so i mean what can be accomplished in
the high school setting
is already a big issue now secondly okay
so what is accomplished by high school
it communicates very powerfully to
people that their
national identity makes them beholden to
learning
a language you know now i think i think
there is an argument that in the united
states of america
today part of being american means that
you're willing to learn spanish to a
certain level
now it's not in your constitution it's
not yes
america politically is devoted to being
monolingual being just english but
there's there is definitely a sense i
think anyone grows up in america would
talk about it you know like
people kind of know the status and
importance of spanish in the history of
the united states and the
current uh economy and everything else
in canada there is a powerful message
shared with you that you know part of
being canadian is learning french and
so on and so forth so you know it it
does get that sense across
now you know we would not be having this
conversation this video would not exist
none of these questions would be
meaningful if there were any truth to
that
i mean genetically i'm jewish
does that mean i want to learn hebrew
not at all
you know now genetically i'm also irish
i've pointed this out in several videos
nobody perceives me as irish
nobody cares about how irish i am
maybe i'm very biased in making this
youtube video about ireland because of
my
my connections to ireland nobody i'm
perceived as jewish i mean barack obama
was not perceived as white he was
perceived as black he's actually half
black and half white
but you know it's that's often the case
you're half one thing half another and
that's you're perceived as
but you know there is no sense in which
i'm beholden
uh to learn hebrew that that doesn't
make sense i think we're gonna have to
deal with that again and again
now what if i had gone to a jewish high
school in toronto they exist
there were many different jewish high
schools in toronto
that probably would have been exactly
the message that was delivered to me
was this is who you are this is your
identity and you're beholden to this
language you know uh so i i just say the
the required learning of language
i actually again it is one of the
reasons for this conversation with
dorney and for me recording this video
today
uh you know part of what he's talking
about is that they're they're
in in i believe in primary school also
but anyway in the school system
they are forced to quote unquote learn
irish and they don't learn irish we're
about one paragraph now we get to that
so it is it is okay i will be fair i
think that the irish school
system is failing to teach the irish
language
far more profoundly than the canadian
school system is failing to teach french
however there are different strategic
factors that make the challenge more
difficult
like uh french is spoken
in this far off exotic country called
france if you're in ireland
there is no far-off exotic country where
people speak irish fluently it doesn't
exist
the only place where irish has any kind
of foothold you know is is
within our own itself and it's
disappearing there and so on and so
forth so
it is very different now also i would i
would say that the irish language itself
probably is a little bit more difficult
than learning french
i it's not like the difference between
chinese and franchising
um okay so there was another there was
another
um there was another commentary moondog
says he's surprised i haven't heard of
this woman before
um i don't watch television
i don't know who you think you're
talking
you think i watch normal tv and can't
not at all i don't i don't watch
television
i'm not this kind of person then i you
think i watch the agenda with steve
paken
who are you talking to what do you think
of me
sorry about i mean i don't watch this
kind of i also don't watch the marvel
movies or the batman movies i mean you
know what do you want
um i'm i'm an authentic snob i've i've
got better things i've got better than
these two of my time like
having this conversation with you right
now i mean you know just saying we all
priorities in life i think it's worth my
time to have a one hour conversation
about this right now with you guys
i do not think it's worth my time to
watch the newest
movie about thor or spiderman or
iron man from the marvel corporation
okay catching up with your comments
okay so um lad in red says
quote if you want your videos to be
discovered by more people then perhaps
consider enabling comments so latin red
i'm sorry but what you're saying is just
not true i've been on youtube
now for maybe eight years more than
seven years
something like eight years um
i'm not saying this to hate on you but
everyone
everyone needs to get over this ego trip
about giving people advice
in areas they they have no expertise and
no experience in themselves
really you know um i'm it's not just
youtube it's not just learning languages
but really i think one of the tragedies
of 21st century culture is that people
go around and really feel
entitled to tell you what you ought to
do
in situations and circumstances they
haven't even done a google search on
they really know
what they really know nothing about so i
mean there is someone in this room right
now who really knows a lot
about maintaining a youtube comment
section and running
and you know i'm sorry but you're really
not in a position to tell me something i
don't know on that
now i'm not offended by your question
but your question makes me despise you
so i know you don't feel that was stated
in a rude way
but i'm telling you what the effect is
on me it makes me utterly despise you
and i do have videos already talking
about why the comment section isn't open
and that's part of the rich discourse
that overlaps with this video of really
talking about thinking about what you do
with your limited time
um you know the choice to play video
games or refuse to play video games is
significant
i mean to choice just this morning when
i was in the gym i was thinking about
whether or not i should force myself to
listen to the news in french
how much time i should put into studying
french as a language the chinese
language these things matter
and the choice to uh
censor a youtube comment section it is a
tremendously time consuming activity
and you know it's a real sacrifice and
the positive
outcomes you're presuming the channel
would have from having an open comment
section
i really know for a fact from direct
experience from both research and
experience
it's just not true okay so return to
this
and and look you know again i know you
think that's not
an upsetting or insulting thing to say
to me uh
but you're wrong so i'm taking a minute
out of this
this podcast to let you know okay
all right returning to the message from
uh from dorney
um quote you are correct about language
preservation
it is an utter shambles here in ireland
over the last few decades it has become
lazy and half-assed
particularly when new new vocabulary is
introduced etc
there's this pathetic mindset now that
if you promote the irish language and
wish
to speak it you are a raging nationalist
it is
laughable as much as it is saddening the
only positive point has been the
establishment of an irish language
television station in the mid 90s
i mean what's the point whilst in school
interpreting the myths of
tir na nog i cannot pronounce any of
these irish words
uh the tyranna nog the salmon of
knowledge the children of lear etc
uh when i can't even say hello properly
he then gives me a link to a um gives me
a link to a youtube video on the same
center
it really boils down to people caring
and not caring
i began doing my own gaelic learning
for me i began doing my own gaelic
learning sessions at home
at the last day of last year mostly
kick-started by what you have had to say
and what you still had to say on
language preservation
that took a backseat for a few months
due to the completion of my first novel
and then he goes on to say he was
inspired to write his novel also by my
youtube channel
this is taking inspiration from my
channel and writing my book he says but
i'm back to it now and i'm dedicating
several hours a day to learning the
language
it may be a failure but i have to try i
have to care
this is a great example of my youtube
channel having positive impact on
someone's life i hope it's positive
i hope writing the novel doesn't ruin
your life i hope the gaelic language
doesn't hurt your life so i mean
obviously that's really nice for me to
hear that uh from a viewer and it's
i i get family like that pretty
frequently to honestly i do
i get female for people saying they quit
video games and started learning a
language and started i started doing
humanitarian work started doing more
meaningful
life because of the discussions we've
had uh on this youtube channel
okay but here's the really tough
question so dorney
i'm saying this to challenge you and i'm
saying this to challenge
everyone else in the audience too for
what it's worth maybe you can take
something positiveness maybe you can't
okay the fact that i'm genetically
jewish doesn't mean that the best
language for me to learn is hebrew
that doesn't make that an easy simple
decision
right you you say you're spending
several hours a day learning gaelic so
we don't know if that's two hours a day
or three hours a day i'm sure it's not
eight hours
okay let's say it's two hours a day just
hypothetically okay
you could be learning chinese instead
and you're not beholden to anybody by
your birth
that's where these issues really get
difficult and dicey
right i knew face-to-face
uh first nations people uh when i was in
saskatchewan current currently i don't
know anyone here
first nations sorry and i should i
should clarify first nations means
indigenous canadian
first nations means american indian
all these terms i knew native people in
canada
when i was living in saskatchewan and
very often
the first conversation with them was oh
well i'm learning cree kind of across
the street in terms of the layout of the
university campus and they would say
back oh that's interesting they'd say
i am cree they'd say their own heritage
is great but they're learning japanese
upstairs you know these are individual
cree people ojibwe people den a people
who were choosing
to learn japanese i can't remember
anyone who was learning chinese probably
i met some
who are learning chinese or there are
probably some who are learning arabic or
other other languages
but it was in in my it was always
japanese that i'm remembering from
experience meeting these people face to
face
and i i do think that's related to
japanese cartoons
you know today you know korean is
becoming more popular this way
with uh korean music videos you know
um i am not in any position to say to
them that they are wrong
to learn japanese and i never did i
never said that's the wrong choice
you know on the contrary very often the
conversation would then be oh
i have experience studying those
languages and you know you can imagine i
have my own experience in asian
languages and living in asia
you know uh one of the guys
hadn't studied chinese but he had
actually
gone to taiwan and considered learning
chinese
went as a sort of formal indigenous
people's exchange group
where he was taken to taiwan and given a
tour and
met their remaining tribal leaders and
people who they were the last people
that speak there
speak the indigenous tribal languages on
taiwan by the way those languages are
not chinese
um they're the languages that were in
taiwan before chinese
uh settled on the island um
you know so i met people who connected a
new voice but look
you know what is the decision you're
making the fact that you're
born in ireland doesn't mean that you
should play the sport of hurling
you know nobody would say that i mean
let's just say you have a kid
who's not very good at hurling who's not
very good at gaelic football
but they have the talent to be a pitcher
in baseball
would you say to them no no no you know
you have an obligation you're born irish
you have
you're beholden to ireland and your own
irish identity you've got to do this
traditional sport it's part of your
nationalist identity or message
no not at all and it's much deeper and
it's much more meaningful with language
now you know if you are a cree person or
an ojibway person
who grew up in a depressing dead-ended
part of canada
you know i can imagine how japan
becomes an escapist fantasy like even a
way out of the racism
you face in canada like you go to japan
and
they don't they're not racist against
you the same way white canadians are
racist against you if you're a first
nations person you look
first nations i can imagine the fantasy
move in japan being very meaningful in
terms of escaping christianity
you're in this christian culture and the
actual reservations the first nations
people
uh live on and so on or even if they've
live they're living in the city
you're in this intensely christian
missionary shaped
british colonial culture you can run
away to japan where instead they have a
mix of
shintoism and buddhism and taoism and
you know miscellaneous japanese animist
a totally different cultural religious
tradition all right so apart from just
attributing it to the cartoons
i see how it could be tremendously
meaningful for you
as an individual to learn japanese and i
have studied japanese myself in the past
that's another story right i can even
see
politically how it could be good for
your people
your particular tribe within canada they
are literally organized into tribes
you know it could be uh they're
organized into tribal
banned councils so the term banned is
used a lot actually for the groups
i see even how it could be positive for
your community your tribe your band
council
to have a connection with japan you know
it was just escaping from and
challenging and thinking outside the box
of
you know canadian politics i can see a
lot of positivity here
including sure the potential to earn
money
honestly earning money is a pretty weak
justification for learning a language
like this
but maybe maybe you can earn some money
out of learning japanese and i can't
make any of those
arguments in favor of learning cree or
learning ojibwe
right so you know i can say this to
dorney too
dorney i am not trying to
uh cajole you into learning chinese
instead but i'm pointing out that even
for someone in your position
even for someone for whom it is already
rewarding and meaningful
to some extent to study the irs
indigenous language
you have to ask yourself those tough
questions and you are going to have to
look back
on the rest of your life even though
even though you took my channel as a
kind of inspiration or motivation
to study this language that was your
choice bro that was on you
you watched my channel and thought the
point well
the point was to study the irish
language the the moral of the story you
took
from these discussions was that you
should get motivated
to study irish
you know you could have gotten motivated
to learn chinese instead i've been
learning chinese myself
you know you could have gotten motivated
to get involved in politics
in a long list of places where we've
talked about the politics and the
opportunity to make a positive uh
difference now i'm just going to say
this partly as a segway and partly it's
something really interesting itself
dorney what about russian
you know what if instead of chinese what
if instead of japanese
what if instead of irish what if you
were devoting two hours a day to
learning russian as a language i think
it's self-evident
the way in which russian would be
politically rewarding and politically
significant in your life
even if you never left ireland just
being in ireland and being an irishman
who had learned russian
and who followed the politics in russia
now yeah i'm not going to exaggerate
what level of fame or renown you might
get to
i think very easily being the tiny
minority of people who care about
politics in ireland
who learn russian you might start
publishing some articles some opinion
pieces in the newspaper
you might get interviewed on the radio
at some point you might start to become
appreciated or recognized as someone who
has some expertise in irish
and it can change your life personally
for the better in so many ways
there are also a whole lot of ways to
get involved in ireland in terms of
charity
i was reading someone's autobiography
the other day you know very short
autobiography of the internet and this
guy his parents
had been involved in um
[Music]
orphanages in russia so they were
americans
but they did the fundraisers for and
they flew back and forth and they're
providing
you know equipment and furnishings and
money to help these orphanages
and i think they they adopted maybe four
kids from the orphanages themselves they
built these kinds of charitable links
with russia
there are a million ways in to russia in
terms of humanitarian work because
russia is still
kind of a disaster but even if you stay
outside
it's already really easy to imagine all
the ways in which
russia in the year 2021 it's going to
raise
interesting questions and reflections
about your own political situation i
mean in the same way that i was saying
look these first nations people from
this reservation
just getting outside of their own
you know getting outside of the
christian british colonial culture
they're raised in
having contact with a totally different
cultural uh religious and political
uh tradition a different literature you
know let's put it that way
you know you're sick and tired of
shakespeare well japan
has its own literature you know in its
own philosophy well we could say this
about russia too
you can you can get outside of
everything you're trapped within in
ireland
even just through russian literature
through having this kind of
different contrasting meaningful
cultural context
even if the contrast between those two
cultural contexts is one in which
you really prefer irish culture over
russian culture
like maybe the maybe the contrast
between these things
makes you appreciate ireland more
entirely possible you know what that
young person who was learning japanese
in canada
it might be that as they really get to
know and understand japan they
appreciate canada more
i have definitely known examples of that
uh even jj mccullough
he went to japan he thought he loved
japan he decided he really hated japan
he came back
he appreciated canada a lot more after
having lived in japan and struggled to
learn the japanese language for a while
um i also knew a guy who went to india
that way and he had i think he had
very fantastical notions about india and
he
really learned the languages he studied
several languages plural
and when he was done with india boy his
whole
his whole attitude towards canada had
changed he came back uh
of basically being a canadian
nationalist or positively appreciating
canada the way he never
had before um so that you know
having that that contrast and those
comparisons it could have unexpected you
know uh
uh unexpected effects this way okay so
um all right
i'm finished replying to the the
question from uh
from dorney and i'm now gonna reply to a
different question from another
supporter on patreon called uh elena
so i think this kind of brings together
and crystallizes many of the
cross currents and difficult difficult
to answer questions that have that have
come up so far in this discussion
and you know again i just i wonder
should i say more about melissa's
question what you were saying about
high schools i mean i feel like in
principle i've answered it but
all the same problems i just mentioned
come up again
but with much higher stakes much higher
consequences if you're then taking those
questions you're not talking about
mature middle-aged people making that
decision for themselves
or you've made a decision for themselves
and their children but you're talking
about
the government making it enforcing
people through those high schools
yeah i think i was surprised when
you first told me that you're not really
in favor of children learning multiple
languages
yes it comes from your experience
growing up in canada
yes
a lot of places around the world in
taiwan now they're acquiring english
so what is the question um right you
know at what age
well so i'm going to have to repeat most
of what you said because people will
hear it
you know rasmus in the audience says
quote i hate the idea of defining
someone
based on where the person happens to be
born so erasmus
i appreciate what you're saying it's
very easy to talk about that when you're
talking about a middle-aged
person like me a middle-aged
intellectual and i could say oh well i
don't define myself based on where i can
move to greece and learn greek we
started doing that
so that's a real thing that happened i
can move to israel and learn hebrew i
can move to taiwan
and speak the horrible taiwanese dialect
of chinese
i can lose taiwan and speak chinese
really badly you know
no offense okay offense get offended
um uh i'm not terribly fond of the
taiwanese accent i must say
i i really feel it's important to
distinguish the number four from the
number 10
in chinese you know i really do um
anyway um that's that's easy but what
melissa is raising here
okay you think someone's identity
shouldn't be you know defined by
where they were born well which school
system you go to which schools you
attend
from from childhood of course including
teenagers as a
as a you know as a high school student
in the university
that is that is defined where you're
born so i mean i just said the stakes
are
much much higher now
some people choose to teach their
children spanish
is this i guess i
don't want to get out of the scope of
the conversation it's about the
requirement
of language oh just what's your point
what's your
it was surprising to me that you you
know you took the most most educated
people most sophisticated people take
the attitude that learning languages
makes you a more intelligent
sophisticated person this is closely
parallel to our discussion about
music education we're going yeah it is
yeah so
it was surprising to me when you said no
actually i think
children learning multiple languages can
confuse them yeah it can delay their
development
yeah yep
yep so i'm just gonna respond to what
melissa's saying here
um
you notice that people very easily
preach
that children shouldn't smoke cigarettes
and children shouldn't drink alcohol
i even see this with people saying
children shouldn't use cell phones
cellular phones mobile phones nobody's i
feel like cell phone is an old-fashioned
term now as opposed to i just do
i feel like cell phone is dropped out of
parliament
anyway you know uh the health concerns
about the
radiation emitted from cell phones oh
well children shouldn't use cell phones
okay but what about you like oh what
like the brain damage caused by alcohol
you think it only matters for children
and it doesn't matter for you you think
the brain damage caused by the cell
phones only matters for children it
doesn't matter
for you you know people find it very
easy to bully children and they think
that the whole realm
of kind of ethical discourse consists of
adults berating children
that the children ought to have virtues
that the adults lack themselves
i think that language learning fits into
precisely this you know oh
you do you really think it would make
you a more sophisticated person to learn
french
really if you believed that you would
live your life accordingly
and by the way i just mentioned i was
dabbling with that this morning
oh i could listen to the news in french
for a little while i was actually
writing out the news longhand in french
i listen to the news and write it out
and
try to practice the vocabulary on
grammar i don't think that's going to
make me
a more sophisticated person i don't have
absolutely no delusions about that i
know it will improve my ability
to when i am in france order food in a
restaurant like there's no like on a
pragmatic level
i can tell you exactly how i will
benefit from practicing french
by listening to news and emotions but no
i will not gain a deeper understanding
of news and politics by listening to the
news in french or by working in this way
you know really i think even if you just
gauging in socratic dialogue with people
there is this assumption that learning
languages like learning to play a
musical instrument
you know um you know has some has some
tremendous morally uplifting
intellectually refined
effect on people and it's the other way
around you are exactly
confusing cause and effect no
extraordinary people
make extraordinary sacrifices to learn
languages
it's not that learning languages makes
them extraordinary
now a great example when i was living in
thailand laos and cambodia
there were all these lazy tourists and
people who were retired
and also white people who went and
opened a hotel or something
and very often they would be amazed at
how well i could speak
one one of these languages so maybe for
example they go oh wow
you really speak cambodian well and i'd
be like
[Music]
how long have you been in cambodia and
they'd say 10 years
and say oh well i've been here for six
months
and cambodian is like the fourth
language i've been studying
like i haven't really been working on
cambodia and i've really been working on
laotian pali pali's a whole different
language
thai to a limited extent and like the
lowest and least in my priorities was
cambodian but i try to fit it in
and just for a few months i've been
trying to do cambodian
and you've been here 10 years oh and
that's your wife
and those are your kids you married a
cambodian woman and you have half
company you get like
really this is the kind of situation
you're in now
i know people might perceive me as
extraordinary
we choose to make ourselves
extraordinary right like you choose to
distinguish yourself
but it's it's not the case that uh
language education makes me
extraordinary you know what i mean i had
my own motivations i had my reasons to
be doing this stuff and these other
people didn't
and they lived a better life than me in
a new world
i'm i'm certain just not learning the
language and just swimming at the beach
and you know doing the things they did
and sleeping around and so on i'm sure
there are many ways in which their life
was more pleasant
than someone who wakes up at 6 a.m and
memorizes vocabulary and works through
you know tables of verbs and stuff but
no um i i think it is precisely it's on
the one hand this culture of bullying
children
to have virtues we don't really believe
in ourself and then on the other hand
it's confusing cause and effect
where it's like we assume oh well
someone who speaks several languages
is an extraordinarily erudite
intelligent person
therefore by taking someone and forcing
them to learn another language we will
make them
an extraordinary er every difference but
no it's the other way around it's
because
i'm an extraordinary person that i chose
to set aside the time and have the focus
and discipline
sure oh yeah that's interesting uh i
won't interrupt too much more but i just
want to say
something that relates to this i
remember you gave a lecture to
a room of chinese yes
yes trying to teach their children
english right
they wanted their children to learn just
to mention she's alluding to a lecture i
gave
where i spoke in both chinese and
english
it was a very it's the only time that's
happened it was an interesting
live lecture yeah and and basically
everyone in the room was a parent
maybe there i think there were a few
school teachers so there were school
teachers and parents yeah
right so it was concerning teaching
english to children
yes the issue was most of the adults
most of the parents in this room speak
english and they didn't have any
interest or engagement was this
issue that you're talking about where
you're telling you know bullying
children into doing something that you
yourself
aren't able to do and you you were
talking about productive ways for
people to practice english in the home
and this is
uh creative well okay but but long
search because i remember the lecture
the the the conclusion of the lecture
was very similar to saying
look if you want your children to never
smoke cigarettes what about you
you gotta quit smoking you can't smoke
in front of your shoulder and preach to
them
if you if you think your children
shouldn't drink alcohol you also
shouldn't drink up and then likewise
about learning
but the conclusion was the parents have
to learn english themselves they have to
go through this
and i know most adults don't have
experience with this there is this myth
that it's very easy for a 13 year old to
learn a language
and it's not if you do this stuff you're
40 or 50
you are gonna make progress so much more
quickly than your 13 year old kid you're
going to be wondering what's wrong with
you why can't you
why can't you remember the vocabulary we
did two weeks ago
well it's because you're a 40 or 50 year
old person with a much higher level of
mental cultivation and self-discipline
than the 13 year old it's very very hard
it's very ineffective
for them to learn language accurately uh
anyway yeah
so interesting digression i think that
is a digression but it runs parallel too
um and it both runs parallel to and
intersects with
some of these other issues where we're
we're discussing today
someone in the audience whose name i
will pronounce
don't know which language that's in uh
look and
comments quote the fact is the poorer
the country you come from the more
compelling it is to learn foreign
languages
i completely disagree completely you
know
i don't i try not to overuse the concept
of falsifiability
but lick what you're saying here is
falsifiable
right so
let's say you live in any major american
city
chicago los angeles
uh detroit atlanta okay do do you
think that poor people who come from
third world countries
and who now own small grocery stores
and uh corner stores or who work at them
maybe they don't own them that is where
they are do you think that they're
especially talented at learning english
is that your experience how about
refugees from refugee camps
who've ended up in the united states
america do you do you think they're very
talented and adept
at learning english and in many cases if
you actually talk to those people and
study it
they often have been provided with an
extraordinary level of assistance
in learning these languages what why do
i say extraordinary because i'm
comparing it to what you get in
university or high school
the level of help you get learning
language and university and for high
school
and the number of hours and the
materials and so on and the immersion
um actually living in a refugee camp
can be a very intense language course if
you take advantage of it
um so the idea again this is similar to
the issue of bullying teenagers or
bullying children
into having virtues you don't have it
certainly is very easy for wealthy
people to imagine that the poor
have inherent intrinsic virtues that the
rich lack or that poverty itself
motivates them
to greatness and great uh great
accomplishments
and sorry look doubled down on this and
said this is why americans don't bother
as if americans are wealthy enough
to not bother so dude i have no offense
but i think you're really living in a
you know very kind of self-contradictory
state of
series of assumptions that in time i
hope you'll you'll challenge
and overturn um you know there certainly
is a stereotype
that americans are somehow less talented
at learning language than koreans are
well have you have you met a lot of
koreans have you met a lot of koreans
who speak english
have you met and spoken to koreans
learning russian you know have you met
and spoke to koreans learning you know
other european languages you know
there's a lot of assumptions that the
grass is green on the other side of the
hill
but there's a really deep really sick
assumption that poor people just because
of their poverty
have some kind of virtue some kind of
advantage that that rich people
lack oh we're right now doing this with
this just this box on screen
i don't want i don't want to wrap this
this uh i don't want to advertise this
lamp
no no big deal just just notice in the
background
um okay
so another sorry a lot of interesting
comments today it's great great to hear
from you guys you guys have had a lot
and thank thank you for reading the
thumbs up button helps more people
discover and join rasmus says that he's
been living in estonia for six years
but really could never wholeheartedly
dedicate himself to learning estonia
um even though he studies university in
estonia and he knows his skills
much better right and erasmus
there is an opportunity cost so again
many
so many of you may not speak english as
your first language this is a special
term in english
opportunity cost has a unique meaning
and the same amount of time you could be
putting
into learning estonian you could be
learning russian
you could be learning greek you could be
learning chinese
it will change your future forever you
could be learning french you could be
learning italian
those are much easier to learn if
english is your first language you know
there is an opportunity cost and it has
to be taken very very seriously
um okay so i'm going to now read this
the second email i hope that was a
productive question i hope you feel most
of i've addressed your your point enough
i mean the other point melissa made that
you guys might not have been able to
hear was just that she was really
surprised at the extent to which or
she was surprised at the extent to which
i reject conventional
theories about learning language and
childhood the depth
of my despite for learning languages in
organized fashion in schools or what
have you and
you know so obviously many of my viewers
are vegan
you know it's relatively easy to compel
someone to be vegan being vegan doesn't
take that much
willpower focus and effort does take
some
it does take some and it's very
saddening to see how many people just
lack
the willpower focus and effort lack the
intellectual qualities
necessary to to be vegan but you know
there is this old saying
in latin villa non discater
you know the will cannot be taught
you could you can't teach someone to
want to learn you can't teach them to
have the will
and what language learning involves
especially for a
child people have wanted to pretend that
we could take the system that was used
to memorize tables of latin
verbs and just use it for any other
language equally effectively
and force children to learn chinese or
force them to learn french or forced to
learn spanish
and it doesn't work and it doesn't work
for reasons that are really profound
and it doesn't have the beneficial
effects that people presumed it would
have
and that have never been based in
reality that they've always they've
always been as false as
the belief in christianity and they've
always been as false as the belief in
god
the beliefs about what that religion
should accomplish are also false but
the outcomes even in terms of language
learning uh are false
and you know anyone who thinks about
sincerely
how a child would become positively
motivated to learn a language
you know if you want your child to learn
spanish
for most most americans could go to
mexico
four times a year very cheaply emile
what if you actually take your child to
mexico
what if your child has just one friend
in mexico who speaks spanish and doesn't
speak english
what if there's another family and you
eat dinner with them
you know these are things that have a
powerful influence on a child these are
things that motivate a child to try
to learn spanish you know and my parents
never did that for me with french
they could have done it with french then
canada i could have been exposed to the
french language positively in many ways
my parents could have sat with me and
watched the news in french
by the way that was specifically in my
lecture the lecture i gave in china i
talked about parents taking the time
to sit and watch the news in english and
i or watch movies in english but you
can't
pause you can't passively watch it you'd
have to watch this tv show in english or
watch this news program and you have to
pause
like every 10 seconds and then go
through the words that are used like you
as a parent you have to be very actively
involved you can't just
passively sit and none of you understand
what's on tv knowledge but you know if
you really think about what will
motivate a child to learn language we'll
reward them for learning language and
then how the process of languages is
going to go
it's not going to be this um simple
coercive notion of how
a classroom and chalkboard language
learning is going to work now conversely
conversely if the child is motivated to
learn
if they already have those other
positive things if the child let's say
you have a family it's very easy
even if you're a family in chicago and
four times a year you go to mexico and
you go to the same place
and he plays with the same kids you know
your your son is playing with some
mexican kids
and getting them they really gain some
appreciation of bicultural appreciation
for mexico
and spanish and it's in their life and
you're watching tv together and
the parents are really encouraging and
getting interested
then when the kid goes into the
classroom
they're going to be able to make so much
progress compared to the other
kids and learning expansion the other
kids can be sitting there the other kids
are going to be sitting
what what is this why am i being forced
to learn this why am i being forced to
memorize this table of verbs
and no adult ever bothers to give them
an answer there are a meaningful answer
to that question
but the kids will never all they know is
that they're being forced to do
something they don't want to do
the same way they're forced to memorize
mathematical tables and this kind of
thing that's all that they know
so you know the classroom methods can
work
if you already have the will if you have
the positive motivation but villa
non-discater
the will cannot be taught and by the way
i've never studied latin
i have one friend and i remember
whenever i would use a this probably
only happened twice
but whenever i used a latin phrase in
email
he would write back something very
cynical i remember once he replied he
said
you have no idea how thrilling it is for
me
to see you use a latin phrase correctly
he had he had steady latin i had but i
really am not doing it too pretentious
there are just some
turns of phrase you learn you learn as
latin uh
latin loan words or clusters of
loanwords you know
um in english so erasmus confirms that
my reflections were spot on for him he
says yeah that's exactly why he hasn't
dedicated himself to learning estonia so
yep it's hard
and erasmus i've been through that with
several different countries in several
different languages
learning a language is hard giving up on
learning language is also hard okay
a viewer of the channel and supporter on
patreon elena
wrote in and this connects to a lot of
the political and ethical
uh reflections in this video she says
hello isil
in one of your recent streams so i'm
quoting her directly
in one of your recent streams you
briefly talked about introversion
actually being a lack of ambition
i had been thinking about it too but i
failed to solve this problem personally
she continues quote i live in russia
there is a political crisis here
things that happen here depress me at
the same time
i am usually the person in a company who
has the strongest views on politics
feminism and veganism well the standard
for political views is so low here
but at least i seem to be such a person
relative to her contemporaries
i continue quote and i am not doing
anything about it
i just wait for changes to happen
quote first i thought that i am just a
social
introverted tired maybe it's the
pressure of the big city
or maybe i am just a coward because the
only thing
that seems possible for me to do is
migration
close quote this may well be
why she has learned english to this
level you know we said before
you know to some extent learning
japanese could be an escapist fantasy
i think there are a lot of people in
russia today who are learning english
even if they have no particular plan to
migrate to canada or the united states
or england or anywhere else
but they look at the reality of what
russia is politically and they think
maybe there's a better life to be had
you know somewhere else so she hasn't
said that explicitly but she's writing
to me in english
this is not google translate you know so
her her question here in conclusion is
not
it's not related the answer the response
i'm gonna give to this but she says
quote so could you talk more about
introversion
is it a state of mind or a type of brain
function does it even exist
close quote so i already did as she
alluded to i made a video quite
powerfully
kind of attacking our cultural
assumptions about what introversion
is this is a concept that comes from the
much maligned psychologist carl young
it's a jungian
piece of um jargon um
but you know my reason for quoting and
responding to this email now
is instead to talk about these issues of
politics nationalism language learning
and the fact that none of us are
beholden to a place just because we
live there you know nobody again nobody
can say to me that because i'm
genetically jewish that therefore
i ought to learn hebrew that's
ridiculous
nobody and nobody can say that because
i'm genetically jewish
i ought to care about the politics of
israel more than the politics of canada
or that i ought to care about the
politics of israel more than the
politics of cambodia
laos myanmar if you guys follow me on
patreon you know i'm still agonizing
over myanmar
or even right now uh belarus ukraine
these are terrible political situations
you know you care about
right but for someone who is born
russian
there's no necessity you don't have to
make russian
your language you don't have to make
russian political struggles your
struggles
you don't have to make the russian
nationality your politics
right but you got to make something your
politics you got to take responsibility
for something somewhere right you can't
live a life of total
irresponsibility i i know this is going
to sound like a very strange
comparison but probably for someone like
elena here who already speaks
english this high level she could
probably make a bigger difference in
myanmar
than in russia right now situation is so
hopeless
in russia get involved in burmese
politics starting with english and
russian
and then working on burmese as a
language burmese are relatively easy
uh language learner and so on you know
and you could pr
in my case i know i know quite a bit
about myanmar i can imagine
a future for her that's quite meaningful
and quite rewarding back and forth
between
myanmar and thailand being involved with
those politics in those languages and
what have you
and you'll never miss russian cuisine
trust me to be fair we've we've been to
some russian restaurants in thailand
there are enough russians in thailand a
lot of russians want to escape the snow
and cold in winter
if you ever did miss russian food you'd
be able to get into thailand
there are whole russian neighborhoods
for those for those tourists there
now i'm going to compare this to a
statement i made about american politics
several videos ago some of you will
remember this some of you won't
but i once raised the point that
moralizing
over the rescue of a drowning
man in water standing by the side
of a river looking at a man who's
drowning and deciding are you gonna risk
your own life
to save him you know the question is
entirely different
if we can save his life and for some
reason we think about these things
hypothetically
we tend to leap over
those issues of possibility those issues
of
capability to just think in terms of
whether or not we
should help this person not whether or
not we can
now i mean this with absolutely no
sarcasm you know
if you have only one leg let's say you
have one leg
and you have a plastic prosthetic leg on
the other side
the possibility of taking off your leg
and swimming into the water
is very different what if you have only
one leg and one arm
and i'm not joking and i've lived in
places like laos and cambodia
where there are people around with one
leg in one arm you know i
i just say you know this is not this is
not meant to be some kind of cruel joke
against disabled people you know you
know you could have some other
health condition whereby assessing your
own health
and looking at the water you think if i
go in to save that drowning man
the odds are i'm gonna drown and i'm not
gonna save that person
you know but we we don't think about
these things in terms of
capability first and foremost we don't
think about what difference can i make
what am i capable of doing
we think about it in terms of moral
obligation
what we should do what we ought to do
now in the past i pointed out there's a
very real danger in american politics
everyone has been debating for almost 20
years now
what okay okay okay 10 years for some
things 20 years for others
it's been 20 years that americans have
been debating what they ought to do
for afghanistan what they ought to do
for iraq
okay for at least 10 years now there's
been a debate about what they ought to
do for
syria for example and several other
countries that were
impacted by the arab spring phenomenon
what should america do you know
now nobody in europe seems to be
interested with the question of what
they should do for the ukraine or what
they should do for belarus
i find that very strange what should
germany do for russia
real question what should france do for
russia okay
these are really really serious
questions really really serious
consequences what should any of us do
for north korea what should any of us do
for cambodia which any of us do for laos
and and as individuals you in the
audience and most of you are not
not that poor most of you you all have
more money than i do no offense but i
mean my
my life economically has been a total
failure in many ways i've lived a
wonderful life and very
happy with it i'm really you know i was
just saying the other day so i said look
you know don't feel sorry for me
but you know i've had a wonderful life
but i mean my ability to even afford an
airplane ticket to any of these places
is you know
dubious at best you know but you know
most of you
in this audience you actually are at a
level of professional accomplishment
educational accomplishment and financial
accomplishment that you could get
involved with any one of these
issues not all of them you got to choose
but you could you could get positively
involved with myanmar
today you could get positively involved
with belarus
today you get paused involved with
ukraine any any of these
if you wanted to i have one friend who
who wants to
you could get involved with politics out
in syria um
that whole part of the world the the
levant as we now say more than ever
you know i know one guy he's a he's a
nurse
and he speaks arabic he doesn't not as
his first language he's white but he he
doesn't have any genetic connection but
he's studied on his own time
he's been building up his ability to
speak read and write arabic for many
years
and he is engaged with and interested in
the politics the world there and then
being engaged in a humanitarian way
and obviously he wonders what difference
he can make either writing as a
journalist or in other creative
capacities
but given that he's a nurse you know his
career he has a way um
he has a way to make a difference i feel
like just
pausing to look at the look maybe this
is too breathless for you guys
but um i realize i'm i'm laying on
things so so i'm just going to pause to
look at some of that
let's go in session
so someone in the audience has started
reading um the book melissa endorsed
anatomy of an epidemic
so i'm gonna hold it up for us forth so
yeah i've i've quoted this author on my
channel
several times guys um you may you may
have literally seen him and heard him
uh robert whittaker and now we have the
book here melissa's been reading it so
far not me
i'd love to if if there were but world
enough and time
sure uh someone else erasmus
raises the issue of um being forced by
society
to care so erasmus i'll just digress on
this briefly
there's no such thing you know either
people care or they don't
you know and the politics that are
unfolding right now in the united states
about racism
show there's no way to force people to
care you know you cannot
force white people to care about black
people
conversely you cannot force black people
to care about white people
i mean some ways it's a very complicated
political conflict
but you may not know especially in the
state of tennessee there have been
really tough questions being asked about
to what extent
children are being taught anti-racism in
school into what extent they're being
taught
racism at school i do not simplify
either side of that argument
i think that both sides actually have
some points to make and it's a very
difficult
argument to bring a resolution to partly
because the quality of the united of
education in the united states is poor i
would think quality of education in
tennessee may be especially poor
but you know parents are really asking
the question
what are you teaching our children about
the history of slavery
in the history of the american
constitution and the more recent history
of saying
you know world war ii to present about
the status of black people
in the united states of america why
would that be an easy question to answer
why would it be easy to teach that
history to children you know
it's not easy you know there's a huge
there's a huge uh
you know political clash going on about
that
um you cannot force people to care
you know you cannot overcome
indifference
with education and the question is the
people who are
not indifferent the people who do care
what kind of education can they have
access to
and that is the central tragedy of my
life is that i was someone who did care
i was someone who wanted to accomplish
these things i wanted to make a
difference and nevertheless i had no
access to education whatsoever
and that in brief may be the best reason
possible for me to uh
for me to go to film school so someone
is is following it up directly asking do
you have an informed opinion on critical
race theory of course i do
i think i just very briefly alluded to
what i have to say within the the remit
of that question
and so there's another example being
added here um someone's writing in
saying that he's worried about moldova
so yes
uh moldova and bulgaria there were a lot
of tough questions to be
asking about so he's mentioning moldova
i would add bulgaria to that list
and
you know what what does it take to get
into the news i mean if the problems in
moldova or the problems in bulgaria are
are not
so bad if it doesn't become so terrible
that you have people
starving to death i mean even um even
venezuela
you know venezuela is again kind of
ignored now you know
well if it's not mass starvation
uh the western press doesn't care
and you know there are too few people
who really who really do active research
who are engaged in these things either
in terms of research or in terms of
humanitarian work or in terms of real
politics
without following up on you know the
cause celeb of the week without
following up on whatever it is the
the um the mainstream press is excited
about there should be more people there
should be people who care about moldova
even though it's not in the press there
should be people who care about
venezuela when it's not in the press and
so on but there
aren't you know and this too is
something i have to really blame our
university system for
i've found i've found that it is
impossible for me even to be a person
who cares about politics of china and
china's a
it's a huge it's not a small country
it's not a small issue there's no way
forward from it
there's no way for me to get a master's
degree or phd there's no way for me to
have any career whatsoever
connected to china and chinese politics
in the chinese language none
so i mean let that sink in and now ask
yourself
what chance does anyone have developing
expertise in and becoming a political
kind of advocate for democracy and
progress
in moldova or bulgaria or belarus or
venezuela or anywhere else so it's
it's a really dark time that way oh and
the other thing is sorry i don't want to
depress this too much the other thing is
just that there's no longer any money in
journalism right the the money you can
now
do journalism like you can just get on
facebook and get on twitter and start
doing journalism and get on youtube
that is wonderful but you can't get paid
for it the ability to actually have a
career and earn money
and anytime i read about what people's
careers were like just to say the 1960s
well people just finished high school
and then went out and started working as
a work correspondent they had this
even if they complained that they're not
making that much money that is level of
luxury and wealth provided to them just
by getting out and starting to do
journalism
the amount of money people could make uh
writing about and researching social
problems and political problems
um in the past is a real contrast to the
current situation
so if you're talking about people really
um you know
if you're talking about people really
devoting the time and energy uh to
knowing what's going on whether it's
afghanistan or any of these other
flashpoints
in a context where they they cannot seek
advancement of any kind through it they
can't earn a living
they also can't get an award they can't
get a medal i mean advancement isn't
always economic
you know like for me i would be willing
to get a phd even if i could never make
money out of it
just for that sense of advancement you
know okay i want to do this research
not everyone's motivated that way but i
am and even that kind of advancement is
impossible for me
so yeah this is a this is a huge problem
and
you know now reflecting on my life it's
very obvious
i could have had more advancement
working on laos
than working on china working on the
korean egypt within working china
so it's it's a very sad situation that
is that has deep
um deep and distant implications that
the the consequences for that problem
uh go run very deep and go very very far
away
all right so elena asked me this
question about
making a difference in russian politics
she already speaks russian this is not
that
she's learning english and maybe on some
level she's fantasizing about giving up
on russia
and migrating to another part of the
world and i respond to this
by bringing up this allegory of a
drowning man
in a river right um
it's very easy for us for whatever
reason culturally or philosophically or
politically in our mind's eye to skip
ahead to to rush ahead to this question
of
should i rescue this man from the
drowning river
should i be an activist for democracy
in russia let's say democracy freedom of
speech
to put a more narrow focus on it should
you be
an activist for anti-corruption
in russia an activist against corruption
in russia now it's not just a dangerous
game
anyone could say here oh well you could
be killed
you could die you could also
spend your whole life laboring in vain
you could lose your life in a very
different sense
you could labor this for untold years
and accomplish
nothing i would like to draw your
attention
to an anti-corruption activist in the
united states who is very famous
called jankweger and the youtube channel
for this is called
wolf pack it is a strange name for a
channel
i hope this isn't going to start playing
music or something i'm going to share
you guys the link
so wolf pack their most recent youtube
video has
59 views the youtube video before that
has 61 views
the youtube video before that has 44
views
the youtube video before that from two
weeks ago
has both jank wieger and lawrence lessig
on it lawrence lessig is also known as
larry lessig he's known by both names
those are two famous people and it has
only 105
views okay this is wolf pack
blank
these people have fame they have money
and they have promoted this particular
cause with
institutional advantages you and i and
guys will never have
i could tell the whole story of how this
first form and how it was first promoted
in the mainstream media and so on how
they first got the bowl on this okay
they have been doing this for 10 years
10 years they've got money they've got
volunteers they've got staff they have
paid staff they've paid employees which
i will never have right
you know and they had a lot of
mainstream media coverage
they had famous celebrities endorsing
them and involved including jack wieger
himself
he is legitimately a famous lover
they've been doing this
for 10 years
and i am going to suggest you that they
have accomplished
less than even my own humble youtube
channel that is in so many ways of
failure
at ballast yell my accomplishment may be
that i'm able to have this discussion
with you now and maybe 500 people and
maybe 1
500 people will care enough to listen to
this and think about it over the passage
of time
and they don't even have that level of
accomplishment to show
for the 10 years of their lives they've
put into this and it's not just one
person's life
for 10 years it's a whole group of
people right so when you're standing by
that river
thinking about jumping in right it's so
easy in your mind's eye to think ahead
to just race ahead
to the ethical question what should i do
what odd i to do and and you think about
it hypothetically with someone else too
like i was just saying
you know um if not you then who
right if if it shouldn't be you who
learns kree if it shouldn't be you who
learns ojibwe if it shouldn't be you who
learns russia
if it's not going to be you who tries to
make a positive difference in this world
in this particular way who's going to do
it right
it's a great way to phrase the question
it's very motivating it's very
inspirational right but what if you
can't
right not everyone can learn cree
not everyone can learn ojibwe not
everyone can make a difference in
russian politics
even in the united states of america the
united states of america this particular
group
this is an anti-corruption political
movement
none of them are afraid of being killed
none of them none of them are afraid of
even say the russian
mob the russian mafia coming to try to
silence them like without killing them
to intimidate them or
right they don't face any repression of
this kind in the united states of
america
and guess what they still lost they lost
10 years of their lives and the people
who donated money lost all their money
which may be significant i mean you know
if you had been giving money
what if you just gave 1 000 a year
for 10 years and now you're looking back
on it and saying
you lost 10 000 in addition 10 years
left that's pretty modest
you know participants even if they were
just buying airplane tickets
to attend these events you were flying
from los angeles to new york and stuff
it could easily apart from donations you
could have easily spent
a thousand dollars a year on this cause
right so my point is
in russia if you want to be a
pro-democracy activist or an
anti-corruption activist
even if nobody kills you even if you
don't have to deal with corrupt
politicians
intimidating you or members of the mafia
intimidating you right
you can lose your life
you can waste your life and you can have
nothing to show
you know in the end of it and so guys
you've heard me criticize video games
you've heard me say don't play video
games
don't waste your life playing video
games right
but you've also heard me say if you've
watched my videos about vegan activism
don't waste your life devoting yourself
to a self-defeating and pointless
form of activism don't assume
you can save someone's life by leaping
into
a river swimming out and trying to help
a drowning man you might kill that
person instead
you thought you were going to save them
instead you killed them
you might risk your own life for nothing
you might be instead
the one who drowns
so this comes to the same conclusion
that's why i answered this in the same
video
as talking about nationalism and
languages right
nationalism provides people with an easy
excuse a simplifying mentality
because what nationalism tells you is if
you're born in russia
you're beholden to russianism these are
your political problems this is your
responsibility you have no choice
it's wrong you have a choice you can
learn japanese
you can move to japan you can you can
learn greek
you can migrate to greece much easier if
russian is your first language
it'll be much easier if you learn greek
by the way you'll have a big advantage
with greek not worth explaining why
there's a
profound link between the greek and
russian languages
you can greece needs to help do you
think there are no important
political questions in greece they're
tremendously important you could even
play a special role
in the trade and political relationship
between
greece and russia it could be a
wonderful meaningful rewarding life for
you
you know you could be involved in
charity work in greece you could be
involved in anti-corruption work in
greece
they also have problems with corruption
and politics by the way in case you
hadn't heard you know greece has
problems with corruption too
you know you you could be a great
democratic reformer in greece you can
make a great
difference in the world the fact that
you're born in russia doesn't mean
that you're beholden to russia the fact
that you're born jewish doesn't mean you
have to learn hebrew it doesn't mean
you're beholden to the politics
of the state of israel right everything
becomes
optional right and then we live our
lives
in this perpetual low-level state of
crisis
right because you you could do anything
but you have to live with the constant
fear that if you commit to any one
particular path
you are actually going to accomplish
nothing
that you're going to waste your life
you're going to waste your potential
even with a cause as obvious as
anti-corruption activism
whether that is in the united states or
at much higher risk to your life in
russia